Modify backup and restore commands also considering Resource Service (#1413)
keptn/keptn.github.io: content/docs/0.19.x/operate/backup_and_restore/index.md

---

To secure all your data in your project's Git repository, as well as all events that have occurred for these projects, you must

> back up the data within the *Configuration Service* (if used), the *MongoDB*, and credentials to your project's Git upstream repos (if you have configured those for *Configuration Service*).

Author: ah yes you are right

kubectl get secret -n keptn git-credentials-$PROJECT_NAME -oyaml > $PROJECT_NAME-credentials.yaml
```

## Back up Keptn with Configuration Service and moving to Resource Service

> This section describes how to back up your Keptn which is using Configuration Service, updating Keptn to a newer version which is using Resource Service and restoring your data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to
* Back up your Keptn installation which is using the Configuration Service
* Update Keptn to a newer version which is using the  Resource Service 
* Restore your data
```

### Add remote git upstream repository to each project

> There is no need to create an extra backup of the Configuration Service, but to not lose your data, you need to make sure every project
> created on your Keptn instance has a configured remote git upstream repository. For project which do not have remote git upstream repository configured, you can use the `keptn update project` command of Keptn CLI to add it. An example of the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each project must have a remote [Git-based upstream repository](../../manage/git_upstream) repository configured to ensure that you do not lose your data.
You do not need to create an extra backup of the Configuration Service.
If your installation is running  an older version of Keptn that does not have  a remote git upstream repository configured, you can use the `keptn update project` command of Keptn CLI to add it. An example of the command:
```

Create a directory for the MongoDB backup:

```console
mkdir mongodb-backup
chmod o+w mongodb-backup
```

Copy the data from the MongoDB to your local directory:

```console
MONGODB_ROOT_USER=$(kubectl get secret mongodb-credentials -n keptn -ojsonpath={.data.mongodb-root-user} | base64 -d)
MONGODB_ROOT_PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret mongodb-credentials -n keptn -ojsonpath={.data.mongodb-root-password} | base64 --decode)

kubectl exec svc/keptn-mongo -n keptn -- mongodump --authenticationDatabase admin --username $MONGODB_ROOT_USER --password $MONGODB_ROOT_PASSWORD -d keptn -h localhost --out=/tmp/dump

MONGODB_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n keptn -lapp.kubernetes.io/name=mongo -ojsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
kubectl cp keptn/$MONGODB_POD:/tmp/dump ./mongodb-backup/ -c mongodb
```

### Back up Git credentials

For storing Git credentials, please execute the following command for each project for which you have configured an upstream repo:

```console
PROJECT_NAME=<project_name>
kubectl get secret -n keptn git-credentials-$PROJECT_NAME -oyaml > $PROJECT_NAME-credentials.yaml
```

## Back up Keptn with Resource Service

> There is no need to create any backup an extra backup of the Resource Service, as all the data are stored in remote git upstream repository and will be automatically synchronized to the Keptn instance after restoring the MongoDB data and Git credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no need to create an extra backup of the Resource Service as all the data are stored in the remote git upstream repository and will be automatically synchronized to the Keptn instance after the MongoDB data and Git credentials are restored.
```

Create a directory for the MongoDB backup:

```console
mkdir mongodb-backup
chmod o+w mongodb-backup
```

Copy the data from the MongoDB to your local directory:

```console
MONGODB_ROOT_USER=$(kubectl get secret mongodb-credentials -n keptn -ojsonpath={.data.mongodb-root-user} | base64 -d)
MONGODB_ROOT_PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret mongodb-credentials -n keptn -ojsonpath={.data.mongodb-root-password} | base64 --decode)

kubectl exec svc/keptn-mongo -n keptn -- mongodump --authenticationDatabase admin --username $MONGODB_ROOT_USER --password $MONGODB_ROOT_PASSWORD -d keptn -h localhost --out=/tmp/dump

MONGODB_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n keptn -lapp.kubernetes.io/name=mongo -ojsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
kubectl cp keptn/$MONGODB_POD:/tmp/dump ./mongodb-backup/ -c mongodb
```

### Back up Git credentials

For storing Git credentials, please execute the following command for each project for which you have configured an upstream repo:

```console
PROJECT_NAME=<project_name>
kubectl get secret -n keptn git-credentials-$PROJECT_NAME -oyaml > $PROJECT_NAME-credentials.yaml
```

## Restore Keptn

> This section describes how to restore data from your Keptn projects on a fresh Keptn installation using the data you have stored on your machine using the instructions above. If using Resource Service, please skip the `Restore Configuration Service` step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to restore data from your Keptn projects on a fresh Keptn installation using the data you have stored on your machine using the instructions above. If using Resource Service, please skip the `Restore Configuration Service` step.
```

```

After executing these steps, your projects and all events should be visible in the Keptn Bridge again.

## Restore Configuration Service data to Keptn using Resource Service

> This section describes how to restore an acient data backup of the Configuration Service and apply it to a Keptn instance running a Resource Service. This can be applied only to projects which do not have a remote git upstream repository configured. The pre-requisities for these steps is to have the MongoDB data restored already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to restore an ancient data backup of the Configuration Service and apply it to a Keptn instance running a Resource Service. This can be applied only to projects which do not have a remote git upstream repository configured. The pre-requisites for these steps is to have the MongoDB data restored already.
```
I am guessing that "acient" was a typo for "ancient".  Please correct if I am wrong.

How is it possible to have a project that does not have a remote git upstream repository with the current releases?  Maybe this is intended for people who are backing up an old release of Keptn and not moving to a current release that requires the upstream?  If so, may want to specify that.

Author: exactly, it is for people using s very old version of Keptn, who want to backup their data and move to the newest version (not upgrading, but completely new installation). In this case they should also be able to restore their data

Reviewer: This also solves https://github.com/keptn/keptn.github.io/issues/1394

> The first step is to setup a remote git repository (e.g. on Github, Gitlab,...) for your project. Afterwards go to the project foler of your backup and execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to setup a remote git repository (e.g. on Github, Gitlab,...) for your project. Afterwards go to the project folder of your backup and execute:
```

```console
git remote add origin <your-git-repository-url>
git fetch origin
git push --all --force
```

> The second step is to configure the remote git repository for your project. You can do it via Bridge UI or Keptn CLI with the commad:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second step is to configure the remote git repository for your project. You can do it via Bridge UI or Keptn CLI with the command:
```
